  Aug 7 2026 BDBP106: Linux and Python programming Lab 8
  Learning goals: Basics of VIM editor
  NOTE: Save screenshots of each exercise, and upload your work to your github account as
  Lab8.pdf and the modified data file by end of Friday Aug 7.
  EXERCISES Start a fresh terminal for this Lab and make a new directory called ’Lab8’.
  Copy the ‘Braincancer.csv’ file to this directory. At the end of the lab, rename the data file as
  ‘Braincancer Lab8.csv’ and upload this to github as well.
  (1) Open the data file using the VIM editor.
  (2) Move to the beginning of the file and insert the text: ”VIM challenge begins!” on a new
  line at the very top.
  (3) Find the word ‘Meningioma’ and replace it with ‘LG glioma’
  (4) Delete the entire line containing the time column entry ‘34.66’
  ‘(5) Copy the current line and paste it two lines below. Show the screenshot before and after
  pasting with file line numbers to prove that you did it correctly.
  (6) Move to the 11th line of this file and insert ”Hello from line 11!”
  (7) Search for the word ‘SRT’ and replace it with ‘SRS’ (all occurences in the file)
  (8) Yank the first 3 lines of the file and paste them at the bottom
  (9) Visually select this entire instructions list and indent it by two spaces.
  (10) Go to the 50th line number, and insert the following text: “ The cat sat on the mat.
  Another cat was watching. The cat did not move.” Replace all occurences of the word
  “cat” with ”tiger”.
  (11) Insert the text “This is an important reminder for you.” at 70th line number. Then
  change the word ‘important’ to ‘critical’. Describe the sequence of keystrokes used in
  full.
  ‘(12) Note down the current line number, jump to the end of the file and jump back to this
  line without scrolling through every line. Describe the sequence of keystrokes used in
  full.
  (13) Add the following sentence at the end of the file: ”The quick brown fox (who was very
  quick) jumps over the lazy dog.” Delete the text inside the parentheses (including the
  parentheses) in the following text. Describe the sequence of keystrokes used in full.
  (14) Go to the last line of the file and append: ”– end of challenge”
  (15) In the remaining exercises, we are going to use Vim’s search, replace, visual modes and
  text objects. Open the file vim_cleanup_exercises.txt and do the following. Describe
  the sequence of keystrokes fully for each problem.
  (i) Fix spacing issues in the text in the lines 1-3.
  (ii) Fix any capitalization and typographical errors in lines 5-8.
  (iii) Correct punctuation errors in lines 10-13.
  (iv) Remove unwanted words in lines 15-17.
  (v) Fix alignment issues in lines 19-22.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘
